“Well, there’ve been so many changes.
It’s hard to keep up.”
We hear that a lot.
And it’s true.
So the question is,
How do these changes come about?
Does the Governing Body get together
on a Wednesday morning and say,
“Well, what will we change
this week?
Let’s throw the brotherhood
off guard a little bit.”
That would not be
faithful or discreet.
The fact is that,
although changes may seem
to be announced one after another,
the decision to put
the changes into effect
is often years in the making.
Now, one of the first big changes
that the current Governing Body
had to grapple with
had to do with this,
Is it feasible
to have a Branch Committee serving
in the United States?
Now, for years the thought was
that we really couldn’t have
a Branch Committee
functioning in the United States
because the States was host
to the Governing Body
and the world headquarters.
So this was going to be
a big decision,
and it wasn’t taken overnight.
A lot of consultation
with mature,
experienced brothers was necessary.
But finally the decision was made,
and we believe that decision
has had Jehovah’s rich blessing.
We’re proud
of our hard-working Branch Committee,
and we’re happy
to have their support.
We need their support.
Now let’s consider
a couple of other examples.
Beginning in the first week
of January 2009,
the School, Service Meeting,
and the Congregation Book Study
were merged.
Now that decision
was almost ten years
in the making.
As far back as 1999,
it was being discussed.
Well, then, why wasn’t the decision
made ten years earlier?
Because the Governing Body
wanted to be sure.
Will the brothers
have what they need?
Will they have
all of the spiritual food they need
if we merge the meetings?
Now then one Wednesday
—I think it was
about three-thirty in the afternoon—
we’d had a long meeting.
We received two letters
from large branches.
And one of the branches said
that they had many large congregations
with seven or eight book studies,
but with only one elder
and one ministerial servant.
So the elder might conduct
five book studies,
and the ministerial servant
might conduct three,
and then they had all of the parts
on the meetings to prepare.
So all they were doing with their time
was conducting book studies
and preparing parts
for the meetings.
It was hard!
And then the same week we received
a letter from another branch,
and they explained why the attendance
at the book study was so low.
They explained that the publishers
loved the meetings
—all of the meetings—
including the book study.
But they’re very poor,
and they couldn’t afford the bus fare
to attend two midweek meetings;
they had to choose.
And if they attended
the School and Service Meeting,
they could get almost two hours
of spiritual direction,
whereas with the book study,
they would get one.
So most of the time
it was the School
and Service Meeting
that won out.
Well, those two letters
put a real face
on the situation,
and it helped us
to make the decision.
Now, in 2008,
a public edition
and a study edition
of The Watchtower
began to be published.
That decision was
a long time coming.
We discussed the possibility off and on,
but we always said,
“Let’s not be hasty;
let’s wait a little bit.
Let’s see what Jehovah wants.”
The main thing was,
What would Jehovah want?
And how would we know?
We decided to make
a sort of fleece test.
And so in 2006,
we began publishing
one Awake! a month,
but we kept publishing
two Watchtowers.
So that would be three magazines
per month, instead of four.
And the rationale was,
“We’ll try it for a year,
“and if at the end of a year
“our magazine placements
have plummeted,
“we’ll know that Jehovah
is not backing this arrangement.
We can go back to producing
two Awakes! a year.”
Well, what was the result?
At the end of the year,
we were placing
as many magazines at three per month
as we had been placing
at four per month the year before.
So that indicated to us
that Jehovah
was backing the arrangement.
And how many
of us have appreciated
having a study edition
of The Watchtower
that speaks directly
to the brotherhood
and then a public edition
of The Watchtower
that can be tailored
a little bit more
to the needs of the public.
Now, before making
any decision
that affects
the Kingdom work,
the Governing Body
has to carefully consider
the spiritual implications.
As an example,
in 2008,
the decision was made to reduce
the length of public talks
from 45 minutes
to 30 minutes.
Well you say, ‘How could
that decision possibly affect
the spirituality
of the brotherhood?’
And if you’re serving
in an urban congregation with many elders
and nearby there are other
urban congregations with many elders,
perhaps you’d have difficulty
in understanding the reasoning.
But the Governing Body
has to look at the whole picture.
Thousands of our brothers
have served where the need is great,
and they’ve learned
a foreign language.
And in many, many
of these congregations
the learners are the elders.
Some of the learners
have told us
that for every minute
of a public talk,
it has required one hour
of preparation.
So can you imagine:
45-minute public talk
—45 hours for some of them?
So the reduction in the length
of the public talks has actually meant
that these congregations
could have more public talks.
That’s not all.
There are thousands of elders
who are serving
in isolated congregations
that may be 100 miles or more
from the next congregation.
So in one congregation
you have one elder,
and then 100 miles away you have
another congregation with one elder.
How many public talks
were those brothers getting
when there were
45-minute public talks?
The 15-minute reduction
made a difference.
So if we take a narrow view
and think only about our own situation
and our own congregation,
well, we can have difficulty
in understanding
why certain decisions are made.
Now the same principles
apply to clarifications in our beliefs.
The Governing Body loves
to get together and discuss the Bible.
And when those Bibles
come out on the table
and when the brothers
bring their research in
and they’re starting to search
the Scriptures and analyze the Scriptures,
you see the happy smiles
on their faces.
The brothers love
discussing spiritual things.
But the clarifications
are often a long time
in coming into print.
Why?
Because the clarification
on one scripture
can have
a domino effect on others.
The clarification
on one scripture
can have ramifications
on other prophecies,
so we have to be absolutely sure
that everything fits.
So to reiterate,
although certain changes
may be announced one after another,
these decisions
are thought out very carefully.
And here’s
an interesting side point:
The older members
of the Governing Body
—Brother Jaracz, Brother Barr—
were just as interested
in making the adjustments
as the younger members were.
They were very progressive.